---
title: Rule Promotions API Overview
nav_label: Rule Promotions API Overview
sidebar_position: 1
---

## The Rule Promotions Object

{% table %}
* Name
* Type
* Required
* Description
---
*
   `type`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies the type of the resource. The type of resource for this promotion is `rule_promotion`.

---
* 
  `name`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies a name for the promotion.

---
* 
  `description`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies a description for the rule promotion.

---
* 
  `enabled`
*
  `boolean`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies whether the promotion is enabled. The options are `true` or `false`, and the default setting is `false`.

---
* 
  `automatic`
*
  `boolean`
*
  Optional
*
  Specifies whether the promotion is applied automatically to the cart or a code is required to apply the promotion. The default setting is `false`. When this value is set to `true`, a code is autogenerated. If this value is set to `false`, you must create the code manually. For more information about creating codes, see the [Create Promotion Codes](/docs/commerce-cloud/promotions/promotion-codes/create-promotion-codes) section.

---
* 
  `start`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies the start date and time of the promotion or the start date of the promotion. You can provide a specific time in the HH:MM format. For example, `"start": "2000-01-01 12:00"`. If no time is specified, the default start and end time is set to `00:00`.

---
* 
  `end`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies the end date and time of the promotion or the end date of the promotion.

{% /table %}

## The `rule_set` Object

{% table %}
* Name
* Type
* Required
* Description
---
* 
  `rule_set.catalog_ids`
*
  `string`
*
  Optional
*
  Specifies the catalogs that are eligible for the promotion. By default, the promotion applies to all items, including custom items. However, when `rule_set.catalog_ids` is defined, the promotion is only applied to items within the specified catalogs. If catalog IDs are specified, custom items cannot be applied as part of the promotion.

---

* 
  `rule_set.currencies`
*
  `string`
*
  Optional
*
  Specifies currencies that are applied for the promotion.

---

* 
  `rule_set.rules.strategy`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies strategies for the rule. Stragey decides how the rules are applied. The following are the supported rule startegies:
   * `cart_total`. Considers the total value of items in the shopping cart.
   * `cart_custom_attribute`. Represents custom attributes associated with the entire shopping cart.
   * `item_price`. Indicates the price of individual items.
   * `item_quantity`. Considers the quantity of individual items
   * `item_sku`. Pertains to specific item SKUs. Supports multiple SKUs separated by a comma. For example, [`sku1`,`sku2`].
   * `item_category`. Relates to item categories. Supports multiple unique identifiers of categories separated by a comma. For example, [`cat1`,`cat2`].
   * `item_attribute`. Involves item attributes, which include:
        * Arguments: [`productTemplate`, `field slug value`, `field type`, `field value`]. For example, "Example: [`template-1`, `brand`, `string`, `Adidas`, `Nike`]". The maximum number of attribute values is 20.

    When using these strategies, you can combine `and` or `or` as needed to specify the criteria. 
    The  `and` strategy is applied when multiple conditions must all be met. The `or` strategy is applied when at least one of the multiple conditions must be met.

---

* 
  `rule_set.rules.children`
*
  `string[array]`
*
  Optional
*
  Specifies an array of rules within a rule set, particularly used when there's more than one rule involved. This array structure includes multiple rules within the same `rule_set`.

---

* 
  `rule_set.rules.operator`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Specifies the operators used for the rule strategy. The `eq`, `gt`,`lt`,`gte`, and `lte` operators are supported in the following rule strategies:
   * `cart_total`
   * `item_price`
   * `item_quantity`

    The `in` and `nin` operators are supported in the following rule strategies:
    * `item_sku`
    * `item_category`
    * `cart_custom_attribute`

---
* 
  `rule_set.rules.args`
*
  `string` / `number`
*
  Required
*
  Represents the condition value associated with each rule within the rule set. The number of supported arguments varies based on the rule strategy:
    * For `cart_total`, `item_price`, and `item_quantity` strategies, only one argument is supported.
    * For `item_sku` and `item_category` strategies, the `args` field supports a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 400 arguments.
    
    For example, see the following snippet:

    ```json
    {
    "strategy": "item_sku",
    "operator": "in",
    "args": ["sku1", "sku2"]
    }
    ```

{% /table %}

## The `actions` object

{% table %}
* Name
* Type
* Required
* Description

---

* 
  `rule_set.actions.strategy`
*
  `string`
*
  Required
*
  Defines how the discount is applied. The available options are: 
   * `cart_discount`
   * `item_discount`

---
* 
  `rule_set.actions.args`
*
  `string`/`number`
*
  Required
*
  * The first argument specifies the format for the discount value. The available options are:
      * `fixed` 
      * `percent`
      * `fixed_price`
  * The second argument indicates the value associated with the first argument. For example, ["percent", 20].
  
    In the case of `fixed_price`, the second argument indicates the multiplier, for example, X for amount, and the third argument is the price. For example, ["fixed_price", 4, 100].

---
* 
  `rule_set.actions.conditions`
*
  `object`
*
  Required
*
  Defines how to apply discounts based on specified conditions. It supports multiple conditions and utilizes various strategies, operators, and arguments to determine when to apply the discount. See [Create the Condition Rule Promotion](/docs/commerce-cloud/rule-promotions/rule-promotions-api/item-rule-promotions/create-condition-rule-promotion).
    * Strategy specifies the condition strategy to be used. Available options include:
        * `cart_total`
        * `item_price`
        * `item_quantity`
        * `item_sku`
        * `item_category`
      
      The `and` strategy is applied when multiple conditions must all be met.

    * Supported operators depend on the strategy used. For example:
        * `eq`, `gt`, `lt`, `gte`, and `lte` operators: Supported for `item_price` and `item_quantity`.
        * `in` and `nin` operators: Supported for `item_sku`, `item_category`, and other strategies.
    * Arguments for the condition are specified. This could be a single value or a list of values depending on the strategy and operator used. For example, for the `item_quantity` strategy with the `gte` operator, the argument `[4]` means that the condition is met if the quantity of the item is greater than or equal to 4.

        For example, see the following snippet:
        ```json
        "condition": {
                        "strategy": "item_quantity",
                        "operator": "gte",
                        "args": [
                            4
                        ]
                    }
        ```

---

* 
  `rule_set.actions.limitations`
*
  `object`
*
  Optional
*
  Defines how limitiations are applied to promotions. These limitations dictate how the promotion can be used and what criteria must be met for it to be applied. For more information, see [Action Limitations](/docs/commerce-cloud/rule-promotions/rule-promotions-api/action-limitations/action-limitations-overview).

{% /table %}

## Sample Response

```json
{
    "data": {
        "type": "rule_promotion",
        "id": "e42ec2df-5682-4047-bc22-9e5eb932ca4a",
        "store_id": "85ea6cac-589a-4141-80d0-42b91aae73a7",
        "name": "$5 off cart with custom attribute",
        "description": "$5 off cart with custom attribute",
        "enabled": true,
        "automatic": true,
        "rule_set": {
            "catalog_ids": null,
            "currencies": null,
            "rules": {
                "strategy": "cart_custom_attribute",
                "operator": "in",
                "args": [
                    "member_status",
                    "string",
                    "gold",
                    "platinum"
                ]
            },
            "actions": [
                {
                    "strategy": "cart_discount",
                    "args": [
                        "fixed",
                        500
                    ]
                }
            ]
        },
        "start": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "end": "2024-01-26T00:00:00Z",
        "meta": {
            "timestamps": {
                "created_at": "2024-01-24T21:27:13.1Z",
                "updated_at": "2024-01-24T21:27:13.1Z"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
